**Project Name** - Bioinformatics Analysis of DNA Methylation in obesity using publicly available datasets

**Background and Objectives**: DNA methylation, an epigenetic mechanism that regulates gene expression by inhibiting transcription factor binding to DNA. I am interested in exploring the relationship between obesity and DNA Methylation. Obesity, often linked to lifestyle changes, poses an increased risk of various diseases. My research question aims to investigate how obesity is associated with DNA methylation changes, considering the influence of both genetic and environmental factors on epigenetics and its role in obesity development. To address this, I plan to reanalyse two or three publicly available datasets from the Gene Expression Omnibus database (GEO), aiming to contribute valuable insights into the epigenetic landscape of obesity. 

**Computational methods**: The computational methods employed in this study involve the exploration of DNA methylation states in obese DNA specimens using two or three publicly available datasets obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus. Differential methylation analysis for the datasets will be conducted independently. The analysis of 450K methylation will be done using the minfi package in R. Additionally, the CHAMP package in R (The CHIP Analysis Methylation Pipeline) will be employed to integrate the 450K analysis methods and to perform the differential methylation analysis. These computational methods aim to elucidate the relationship between obesity and DNA methylation changes, providing valuable insights into the epigenetic mechanisms underlying obesity development.

**Discussion**: To evaluate the biological significance of the results obtained from the computer analysis, several steps will be taken. Firstly, hyper-methylated and hypo-methylated genes will be filtered based on the significance level of the p-value derived from the differential methylation analysis. Next, a heatmap of all the significant CpGs and a bar plot containing information on all hypo- and hyper-methylated CpGs will be generated and visualized. Subsequently, differentially methylated genes will be identified, and a list of genes commonly present in all three datasets will be compiled. Finally, the association of these genes with KEGG biological processes will be explored, to indicate the functional implications of the observed DNA methylation changes in obesity. This comprehensive approach will help in assessing the biological relevance and potential mechanisms underlying the association between obesity and DNA methylation alterations.
